
Session-01 --
Setup React Project using create-react-app tool.
Understand the flow.

-------------

Session-02 -- 

EP01 -- Inception

Write Hello world using plain HTML.
Write Hello world using JavaScript.

connect react using cdn.
Write Hello world using react.
add some attributes.
understand react-element.
make complex dom tree using react (nested html structure).  

-------------

EP02 -- Ignite our App
bundlers - (webpack, parcel, vite)

-------------

EP03 -- Laying the foundational concept
Scripts
JSX
JSX - Features
Babel
Components & it's type

-------------

EP04 -- Let's Code
Props
JavaScript inside JSX
Dummy data rendering
Explore Map function
config driven UI

-------------

EP05 -- Hooks
Make Folder structure
default export / named export
onClick Handlers
Hooks in React
useState()
React Features (VDOM)
Reconciliation
React Fragment

-------------

Git & gitHub

-------------

EP06 -- 
Monolith Architecture
Microservice Architecture
Separation of concern / Single responsibility principle
useEffect Hook
API call in react.
search functionality
conditional rendering

-------------

EP07 --





==========================
Questions-

What is CDN (Content Delivery Network)?
CDN is a network of servers distributed across different geographic locations that store copies of static assets, such as images, videos, stylesheets, and JavaScript files. When a user requests a resource from a CDN, the request is routed to the nearest server, reducing latency and improving page load times.


What is react elements?
The React Element is a small piece of code representing a part of the User Interface in a React Application. Every React element is a JavaScript Object at the end.

What is npm ?
npm is a biggest repository that manages all node packages(dependencies) or libraries for our projects.


what is package.json ?
package.json is a file that contains all the information about our project, including the dependencies, scripts or all configuration about our project. 


why do we need package.json ?
package.json is a file that contains all the information about our project, including the dependencies, scripts or all configuration about our project. It is used to manage the dependencies of our project. To manage dependencies version.


what is module bundler?
A bundler is a tool that bundles all the code of our project into a single file. This file can be easily deployed to a server or a production environment.
Example - parcel, webpack etc.


Type of dependencies?
There are two types of dependencies in npm.
1. Development dependencies - development phase
2. Production/Normal dependencies - production ready code


Difference between caret and tilde sign in package.json?
The caret sign (^) and the tilde sign (~) are used to specify the version of a dependency in package.json.


The caret sign (^) is used to specify the minimum version of a dependency. For example, if we specify ^1.2.3, it will install the latest version of 1.2.4
The tilde sign (~) is used to specify the exact/major version of a dependency. For example, if we specify ~1.2.3, it will install the exact version of 2.0.0


what is package-lock.json?
package-lock.json is a file that contains the exact version of all the dependencies in our project. It is used to ensure that the same version of a dependency is installed in all environments.


what is node modules directory?
The node_modules directory is a directory that contains all the dependencies code of our project. It is created by npm install command.


what is transitive dependencies?
Transitive dependencies are the dependencies of a dependency. For example, if we install a dependency A, A has a dependency B, and B has a dependency C, then C is a transitive dependency.


What is JSX?
JSX is a syntax extension for JavaScript that allows you to write HTML-like code in your JavaScript files.


How JSX works in react?
JSX is converted to React elements by the JSX transformer. React elements are then rendered to the DOM as an HTML Elements.


What is Babel?
Babel is a JavaScript compiler that converts modern JavaScript code into older syntax that can be run by Browsers. Babel is a JavaScript compiler that converts JSX into JavaScript code.


What is react components ?
React components are reusable pieces of code that represent a UI element and returns some piece of JSX Code. They can be functions or classes.


What is Functional Components?
Functional components are pure JavaScript Functions that takes in props and returns JSX.


What is Class Components?
Class components are JavaScript classes that extends React.Component and returns JSX.


What is Component Composition?
Component composition is the process of combining multiple components to create a new component.


What is Props?
Props is short for properties. Props are object of immutable values that are passed from a parent component to a child component.


What is Config driven UI?
Config driven UI is a UI that is driven or rendered by configuration files. It is a UI that can be configured using a configuration file or based on some config data.


What is list and keys in react & why we use them?
List and keys are used to optimize the rendering of a list of components in React. The key is
a unique identifier for each item in the list of components. React uses the key to determine which items have changed and which items are added and which are removed. This helps React to optimize the rendering of the list.


Why we don't use index values as a key?
We don't use index values as a key because when the list is reordered, the index values will change, and React will think that the items have changed, which will cause it to re-render the entire list. This can be expensive and can cause performance issues.


Difference between default export and named export?
Default export is a single export from a module, while named export is multiple exports from a module.


Define map, filter and reduce method?
Map method is used to iterate and manipulate each element in an array. 
Filter method is used to filter out elements from an array. 
Reduce method is used to reduce an array to a single value.

#all of these method returns new array.


What problem react solves/ Why react is fast?
- React solves DOM Manipulation problems.
- It update the DOM within less time and in optimize way.
- React make DOM operations super fast and efficient.
- Logic behind update the DOM superFast known as re-rendering and that's the reason React is superpower.
- React has worlds best render mechanism. It renders component very fast. 


----------

How react does DOM operations fast and efficiently?
React checks the state variable in component constantly. whenever component state changed it create a new virtual DOM. Now the react have two virtual representations so React identifies the Difference between old VDOM and new VDOM using Diffing Algorithm. Once it identifies the Difference between them it update the actual DOM this process of updating DOM is called Reconciliation Algorithm (React Fiber) that's why react is fast because comparing two HTML nodes are more difficult task unlike comparing two JS Objects.

Here are some things React use for DOM Operations- 
Reconciliation (React fiber)- Process of updating the actual DOM based on difference.

Virtual DOM - 
It is a Virtual representation (JS representation) of actual DOM.
At the end it is a plain JS Object which hold the element info.

Diffing Algorithm - identifying the difference between two VDOM copies.

#this is a core concept of react.

----------

What is Event Handling in React?
React supports various event handlers, such as onClick, which allows you to execute a function when an element is clicked. In this exercise, we'll use the onClick event handler to toggle the visibility state when the button is clicked.


What is Conditional Rendering?
React allows you to conditionally render elements based on a certain condition. In this exercise, we'll use conditional rendering to display or hide the text element based on the visibility state.

----------


What is Hooks in react?
Hooks are normal JavaScript functions that comes with some superpowers. Hooks are used in react to make react UI interactive.
Hooks are used to manage state and side effects in functional components.
most useful hooks - useState(), useEffect()


Explain useState Hook?
useState is React Hook that allows you to add state to a functional component. It returns an array with two values: the current state and a function to update it.
It takes one argument which is a initial value for state variable.
Syntax - const [state, setState] = useState(initial_value)


What is react fragment?
React Fragment is a new way to group a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM.


What is State in react?
The state is a built-in React object that is used to contain data or information about the component.


What is useEffect hook in react?
useEffect is a hook that allows you to run some side effects after rendering a component. It can be used to fetch data, set timers, and more.
It takes two arguments 1st one is callback function and 2nd is a dependency array.

How useEffect works/ when it will be render?
callback function inside useEffect will be called after every render of the component. If you want to run it only once then you need to pass an empty dependency array to it.


What is conditional rendering?
Conditional rendering is a feature in React that allows you to render elements conditionally based on a certain conditions. we will use ternary operator to handle these conditions.